l10n_fr_fec_import: Accounting FEC import documentation (#979)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/finance/accounting/fiscal_localizations/localizations/france.rst

France
======

.. _france/fec:

FEC - Fichier des Écritures Comptables
======================================
 

> An :dfn:`Fichier des Écritures Comptables` audit file contains all the accounting data and entries

Author: Whoops. Mended.

But can I ask why "An FEC audit file" instead of "A FEC audit file"?
"A Fichier des Écritures Comptables" sounds much better to me, but maybe I'm wrong and I'm ignoring some rule 🤔 

![immagine](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1665365/146446915-44955a5d-a27c-49dc-b2f0-502328c27f3b.png)

> An :dfn:`Fichier des Écritures Comptables` audit file contains all the accounting data and entries

Reviewer: @jcs-odoo will probably explain that better than me. In the meantime, it's r+'ed!

> An :dfn:`Fichier des Écritures Comptables` audit file contains all the accounting data and entries

Reviewer 2: A and An actually depends on the sound of the sentence, and not the main word.

So indeed, it's A file. But AN "èff-euh-cé" (FEC) file.

Weird, I know ^^

@lordkrandel @AntoineVDV

> An :dfn:`Fichier des Écritures Comptables` audit file contains all the accounting data and entries

Reviewer 2: So indeed "A fichier des écritures comptables", and "AN FEC" because of the letters said out loud.

FEC
===

A FEC file (Fichier des Ecritures Comptables) contains all the accounting data and entries recorded in all 
the accounting journals for a financial year. The entries in the file must be arranged in chronological order.

Since 1 January 2014, every French company is required to produce and transmit this file upon request 
by the tax authorities for audit purposes.

Import 
------

In order to make the onboarding of new users easier, Odoo Enterprise's French fiscal localization
includes access to the ``l10n_fr_fec_import`` module, that enables the import of existing FEC files
from older software.

.. tip::
    | To do so, activate the Developer mode and then, in the menu, you can find the item filed under:
    |

>     | :menuselection:`Accounting --> Configuration --> FEC Import`

Author: I removed the 'developer mode' part as it's no longer needed. Ok for the rest

**Example**: the account code 65800000 in the file will be matched against an existing 658000
account in Odoo, and that will be used instead of creating a new one.

Reconcilable flag
*****************

An account is technically flagged as **reconcilable** if the first line in which it appears has the "EcritureLet" 
field filled in, as this flag means that the accounting entry is going to be reconciled with another one.

.. note::
    In case the line somehow has this field not filled in, but the entry still had to be reconciled
    with a payment that yet been recorded, this won't be a problem anyway; the account will be flagged
    as reconcilable as soon as the import of the move lines will require it.

Account type and Templates matching
***********************************

As the **type** of the account is not specified in the FEC format, **new** accounts will be created
with the default type 'Current Assets' and then, at the end of the import process, they will be
matched against the installed Chart of Account templates.
Also the **reconcile** flag will also be computed this way.

The match is done with the left-most digits, starting by using all digits, then 3, then 2.

> Example: ::

Reviewer 2: Be consistent with the way you write "example:"
The other ones are in bold.

    Template:  400000: Fournisseurs et comptes rattachés
    CompteNum: 40100000
               ^^

The type of the account will then be flagged as '**payable**' and **reconcilable** as per the account template.

Journals
********

Journals are also checked against those already existing in Odoo to avoid duplicates,
also in the case of multiple FEC files imports.

Should a similar journal code already be present in the system, the existing one will be used
instead of creating a new one.

New journals will have their name prefixed by the string ``FEC-``

> e.g. `ACHATS --> FEC-ACHATS`

Author: I've changed E.g., to \*\*Example\*\*: for consistency

The journals will **not** be archived, the user will be entitled to handle them as he wishes.

Journal type determination
**************************

The journal type is also not specified in the format (as per the accounts) and therefore it is
at first created with the default type "general".

At the end of the import process, the type is determined as per these rules regarding related moves and accounts:

* | **bank** : Moves in these journals will always have a line (debit or credit) impacting a liquidity account.
  | ('cash' / 'bank' can be interchanged, so 'bank' is set everywhere when this condition is met)
* | **sale** : Moves in these journals will mostly have debit lines on receivable accounts and credit lines  on tax income accounts.
  | Sale refund journal items will be debit/credit inverted.
* | **purchase** : Moves in these journals will mostly have credit lines on payable accounts and debit lines on expense accounts.
  | Purchase refund journal items will be debit/credit inverted.

> * | **general** : for everything else.

Author: There are other '*' in the file, and this change makes the bulleted lists in the same file inconsistent.
Shall I leave them as '*' or change them to '-' ?

> * | **general** : for everything else.

Reviewer 2: consistency is important :)
I don't think it's important to use either * or - but indeed, pick one and keep it.

> * | **general** : for everything else.

Author: 👍🏻  Done

Should this grouping generate balanced moves (sum(credit) - sum(debit) = 0), then each different
combination of journal and date will create a new move.

e.g. ACH + 2021/05/01 ---> new move on journal ACH with name '20210501'.

Should this attempt fail, the user will be prompted an error message with all the move lines
that are supposedly unbalanced.

Partner information
*******************

If a line has the partner information specified, the information is copied to the accounting Move
itself if the targeted Journal is of type "payable" or "receivable".

Export
------

| If you have installed the French Accounting, you will be able to download the FEC.
| For this, go in :menuselection:`Accounting --> Reporting --> France --> FEC`.

.. tip::
    If you do not see the submenu **FEC**, go in **Apps** and search for the module
    called **France-FEC** and verify if it is well installed.

More Information
----------------

You will find more information about the FEC format here:

* `Official Technical Specification (fr) <https://www.legifrance.gouv.fr/codes/article_lc/LEGIARTI000027804775>`_

> * `Official FEC Testing tool (last updated in 2018) <https://github.com/DGFiP/Test-Compta-Demat>`_

Author: At the end of the file (unmodified by this patch) there is a similar "More information" section... What should I do with that, I guess I should leave it as it is? Or put a 'seealso' there too?

> * `Official FEC Testing tool (last updated in 2018) <https://github.com/DGFiP/Test-Compta-Demat>`_

Reviewer 2: @lordkrandel 
Indeed, you can do a seealso section at the end as well. Thanks!

> * `Official FEC Testing tool (last updated in 2018) <https://github.com/DGFiP/Test-Compta-Demat>`_

Author: 👍🏻  Done.

* | **sale**: Moves in these journals mostly have debit lines on receivable accounts and
    credit lines on tax income accounts.
  | Sale refund journal items are debit/credit inverted.
* | **purchase**: Moves in these journals mostly have credit lines on payable accounts and
    debit lines on expense accounts.
  | Purchase refund journal items are debit/credit inverted.
* | **general**: for everything else.

.. note::
    A minimum of 3 moves is necessary for journal type identification.
    A threshold of 70% of moves must correspond to a criteria for a journal_type to be determined.

**Example**::

    Journal id = 5
    Moves:
        has a sale account line and no purchase account line = 0     ratio = 0
        has a purchase account line and no sale account line = 1     ratio = 0.25
        has a liquidity account line                         = 3     ratio = 0.75
                                                        ----------
                                                        Total: 4

The journal type is "bank", because the bank moves ratio 3/4 (0.75) exceeds the threshold (0.7)

Partners
********

> Each partner keeps its Reference from the field "CompAuxNum", which are searchable from Odoo,
> in line with former FEC imports on the accounting expert's side for fiscal/audit purposes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each partner keeps its **Reference** from the field **CompAuxNum**. 

.. note::
   These fields are searchable, in line with former FEC imports on the accounting expert's side for
   fiscal/audit purposes.
```

> Users can merge partners with the Data Cleaning App, where Vendors and Customers or similar
> partner entries may be merged by the user, with assistance from the system that groups them
> by similar entries.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. tip::
   Users can merge partners with the Data Cleaning App, where Vendors and Customers or similar
   partner entries may be merged by the user, with assistance from the system that groups them by
   similar entries.
```

Moves
*****

Entries are immediately posted and reconciled after submission, using the "EcritureLet" field
to do the matching between the entries themselves.

The "EcritureNum" field represents the name of the moves. We noticed that sometimes it may be not
be filled in. In this case, the field "PieceRef" is used.

Rounding issues
***************

> There is a rounding tolerance with a currency-related precision on debit and credit *(i.e., 0.01 for
> EUR)*. Under this tolerance, a new line is added to the move, named 'Import rounding difference',
> targeting the accounts:
> 
> * Charges diverses de gestion courante (658000) for added debits
> * Produits diverses de gestion courante (758000) for added credits

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There is a rounding tolerance with a currency-related precision on debit and credit (i.e., 0.01 for
EUR). Under this tolerance, a new line is added to the move, named *Import rounding difference*,
targeting the accounts:

- Charges diverses de gestion courante (658000) for added debits
- Produits divers de gestion courante (758000) for added credits
```

Missing move name
*****************

Should the "EcritureNum" not be filled in, it may also happen that the "PieceRef" field is also
not suited to determine the move name (it may be used as an accounting move line reference) leaving
no way to actually find which lines are to be grouped in a single move, and effectively
impeding the creation of balanced moves.

One last attempt is made, grouping all lines from the same journal and date ("JournalLib",
"EcritureDate"). Should this grouping generate balanced moves (sum(credit) - sum(debit) = 0),
then each different combination of journal and date creates a new move.

> **Example**: ACH + 2021/05/01 ---> new move on journal ACH with name '20210501'.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Example**: ACH + 2021/05/01 --> new move on journal ACH with name ``20210501``.
```

FEC 
===

> An FEC audit file (Fichier des Écritures Comptables) contains all the accounting data and entries

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An FEC :dfn:`Fichier des Écritures Comptables` audit file contains all the accounting data and entries
```

**Example**: the account code 65800000 in the file is matched against an existing 658000 account in
Odoo, and that account is used instead of creating a new one.

Reconcilable flag
*****************

An account is technically flagged as *reconcilable* if the first line in which it appears has the
**EcritureLet** field filled out, as this flag means that the accounting entry is going to be
reconciled with another one.

.. note::
   In case the line somehow has this field not filled out, but the entry still has to be reconciled
   with a payment that hasn't yet been recorded, this isn't a problem anyway; the account is
   flagged as reconcilable as soon as the import of the move lines requires it.

Account type and Templates matching
***********************************

As the **type** of the account is not specified in the FEC format, **new** accounts are created
with the default type *Current Assets* and then, at the end of the import process, they are
matched against the installed Chart of Account templates. Also, the *reconcile* flag is also
computed this way.

The match is done with the left-most digits, starting by using all digits, then 3, then 2.

> **Example**::

Reviewer: You could maybe try making use of the [Custom admonition](https://www.odoo.com/documentation/master/contributing/documentation/rst_cheat_sheet.html#custom) directive and see if it looks better/clearer?

Reviewer 2: I thought of this as well but there are other examples further that use a code that is not compatible with admonitions. It creates some kind of grey rectangle.

Is this a bug that should be fixed, @AntoineVDV ?

Reviewer: I just tried that and it worked fine for me so I'm not sure what grey rectangle you're talking about?

FYI, I replaced all occurrences of `**Example**` by `.. Admonition:: Example`. If there were code-block markers (`::`), I kept them to avoid interpreting the example as RST code.

For example:
```rst
.. admonition:: Example

   ::

    Journal id = 5
    Moves:
        has a sale account line and no purchase account line = 0     ratio = 0
        has a purchase account line and no sale account line = 1     ratio = 0.25
        has a liquidity account line                         = 3     ratio = 0.75
                                                        ----------
                                                        Total: 4
```

Author: I've tidied up using a table.
